# Basics

The main problem of the observable pattern in terms of text processing is that is receives the data passively, i.e. via subscription. But the thing is that parsing in most of the times would require a pull mechanism of data fetching. Usage of push-streams such as observables would require a buffer to store received data for further usage. But if we want to stay with observables, this package is a solution to this problem.

## Required knowledge

- The basics of [`rxjs`](https://github.com/ReactiveX/rxjs) and the reactive programming paradigm
- How do JS promises work
- What are `Option`/`Result` (aka `Maybe`/`Either`) monads
- The concept of data bufferization

## Data types

There are 2 types of processable data in terms of this library: text data and binary data. Those types may be represented by a `ChunkTypeId` type, instances of which may have one of 2 values: `'text'` or `'binary'`. Storage of `'text'` chunks is implemented by using `string`s. They are also used to store characters (`'text'` chunk items). `'binary'` chunks are stored via `Uint8Array`, and use `number`s to store bytes.

Often you may see as `C` generic type is used across the library. Because theese data types acts similarly, they can be templated. `C` always extends `ChunkTypeId` in that case, in most of the cases it also uses `'text'` as its default type.

If you want to get chunk's type when you have only its ID, it may be provided by using `ChunkTypeMap` type, e.g. `ChunkTypeMap['text']`, or `ChunkTypeMap[C]`. Brackets are used because it is a type map, i.e., an object type, and we actually address its property types.

<p align="center">
    ← Previous
    |
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/README.md">Index</a>
    |
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/getting_started/2.md">Next →</a>
</p>
