# Getting asynchronous

Instances of this interface should be obtained via `IIoBuffer.prototype.createReader` call. Since `IIoBuffer` is fully synchronous API, the purpose of `IReader` is to make it asynchronous.

There are 2 ways how to get it asynchronous:

- `Promise`s;
- Generators.

The promblem with promises is that it will queue deferred routines every time the read command is performed, even though the data is already available. Here is the place where generators come in. They may be performed in both synchronous and asynchronous way. It upgrades the performance, since we parse data by small pieces, receiving large clusters in parallel.

## Operators

```javascript
function* generator() {
    // we pass operator in `yield`, then, when the operation is fulfilled
    // synchronously or asynchronously, the read chunk is returned to the
    // generator
    const readChunk = yield some_operator

    // when we got bad data, we should inform the caller about that
    if (...) throw some_error

    ...

    // then we return processed data, if everything is alright
    return processed_data
}
```

The snippet above shows the main concept of generator-based asynchronous I/O. Forwarding instructions to `yield` we receive read data, constructing of those `yield`s more complex scripts.

There are 2 kinds of operators:

- Simple (passed to `yield`)
- Complex (passed to `yield*`, with the star)

Simple operator should be constructed only by functions from a `rx-reader/operators` namespace. They are implemented as objects, containing ID of the operator, and its arguments. Then the one who iterates this generator (reader) is responsible for interpreting these instructions.

Complex operators are just generators. They produce (what we pass in `yield`) simple operators, and consumes (what we get from `yield`) read data. To use already written complex operators, just add a star after the `yield` keyword.

## `IReader`

This interface may be seen in 2 ways: as a way to get asynchronous, and as an interpreter of simple operators. It forwards some properties of its owner, `IIoBuffer`, but hides the information about the amount of availble data. It also forwards the `IIoBuffer.prototype.push` event, but subscribers are going to get `void` instead of chunks. These restrictions are done to make reader users not rely on buffer's content, because readers are a higher abstraction.

`IReader` also contains a main method `read`, having 2 overloads:

- `read(operator: SimpleOperator<C>): Promise<ChunkTypeMap[C]>` — consumes a simple operator, returns read chunk asynchronously; rarely used;
- `read<O, E>(operator: ComplexOperator<O, E, C>): AsyncResult<O, E>` — consumes a complex operator, returns `Promise<Result<O, E>>` wrapper

The generic types `O` and `E` should be explained. `O` stands for "output", and `E` stands for "error". To return a succeeded result, use `return` keyword inside complex operator, and to return a failed result, use `throw` keyword inside that operator. To fail successfully, you also need to wrap the error into the `Failure` type, to separate parsing failures from other errors (like `Error`, `TypeError`, etc.).

These simple rules allows to write code with ease. If it doesn't seem simple to you, check out project's [`read-me`](/doc/README.md), or docs [`examples`](/doc/examples/README.md).

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/getting_started/2.md">← Previous</a>
    |
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/README.md">Index</a>
    |
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/getting_started/4.md">Next →</a>
</p>
