# About basic operators

## `read`, `peek`, and `skip`

These 3 operators are a fundament of all the `IReader` API. They got some things in common:

- They consume `count?: number | null` — if is it a number, then performes the operation on exact amount of items; if it is `null` or `undefined`, then completes the operation on reader's completion;
- They consume a `strict?: boolean | null` option — if it is `true` (default value), then requires exact amount of items; otherwise `count` is used as a limit, determining not exact but maximum amount of items.

Basically, there are 2 kinds of basic operations:

- Fetch data from the beginning of the buffer;
- Remove data from the beginning of the buffer.

The way how these basic operations are implemented is given in the following table:

| | <span style="color: #7fff00">do</span> fetch | <span style="color: red">doesn't</span> fetch |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span style="color: #7fff00">do</span> remove | <div style="text-align: center">`read`</div> | <div style="text-align: center">`skip`</div> |
| <span style="color: red">doesn't</span> remove | <div style="text-align: center">`peek`</div> | <div style="text-align: center">❌</div> |

`peek` is good for data pre-analysis. `skip` is good when we know, what we don't care about following contents (e.g., whitespaces), or we already know what kind of data is lying. `read` combines them both and is commonly used.

## `xxxWhile`

All these operators got `while` extension. The variety of arguments that can be passed to those extended operators is quite expensive:

- `condition: (item: ChunkItemTypeMap[C]) => boolean` — `while`'s condition; if it returns `false`, then stops the loop;
- `options?: Readonly<XxxWhileOptions> | null`:
    - `limit?: number | null` — if `null` or `undefined`, the `limit` is not applied; otherwise limits the number of items that can be read/peeked/skipped, not the number of items that can be processed;
    - `inclusive?: boolean | null` (default: `false`) — if `true`, includes the last processed item (the item that caused `conditon` return `false`);
    - `strict?: boolean | null` (default: `true`) — if `true`, throws an `EndOfStreamError` when the reader completes, but `condition` never returns `false`; otherwise just returns all the processed items.

These operators add some dynamic in the process, and often are used even more frequently than just `xxx` operators.

## `skipWhitespaces`

As `xxxWhile`, but skips all the whitespaces. For whitespace matching the `/^\s*/` pattern is used.

## `xxxLine`

As `xxxWhile`, but stops on a line break. Line termination sequences: CR, LF, and CRLF. If `inclusive` option is set on, then retains the line termination sequence.

<div style="text-align: center">
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/getting_started/3.md">← Previous</a>
    |
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/README.md">Index</a>
    |
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/getting_started/5.md">Next →</a>
</div>
