# More advanced opertors

## `demand`

Peeks the data, then matches it with the given pattern (`expected`). If they aren't equal, fails with an error produced by `errorFactory`. If `inclusive` option is set (default behavior), then additionally skips the data; otherwise does nothing else.

## `wait` & `call`

These operators allows to use `Promise`s inside of complex operators. The `wait` operator simply returns to the execution once the `Promise` fulfilled. The `call` operator is an overhead over `wait`, returning not just an empty chunk, but the result of the promise, and also throws its error if it rejects.

## `xxxContext`

There are 2 types of contexts: mutable and immutable. Parser context might be an example of mutable context. It contains line number, column number, other stuff; for example, XML parsing context might contain XML tree. An example of immutable context might be JS import stack, or any other stack-based structure.

Mutable contexts are managed via `setContext`, `unsetContext`, and `getContext` operators. Trying to set context twice will throw an error, so, if you'd like to change the context (what is unlikely), you have to call `unsetContext`. Thus, calling `unsetContext` twice will result in the same outcome.

Immutable contexts are managed via `pushContext`, `popContext`, and `peekContext` operators. Simply makes a built-in mechanism for stack-based contexts.

Mutable contexts may also be passed as a second argument of the `IReader.prototype.read` method, and they will be automatically set before the complex operator interpretation.

<div style="text-align: center">
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/getting_started/4.md">← Previous</a>
    |
    <a href="https://github.com/retueZe/rx-reader/tree/master/doc/README.md">Index</a>
    |
    Next →
</div>
